# ReducingWastedFood
Estimate whether or not a state’s wasted food is enough to provide for the food-insecure people of a specific state
# Better ATE than never: Reducing wasted food
# Executive Summary:
In a nation with the greatest combination of GDP and growing population, it is crucial that
we sustain the essentials of human existence to its greatest extent. Whether it is maintaining a
long-term fresh water supply or developing new technology, our country is built on innovation for
future generations to grow to new heights. But as the 21st century develops a bigger divide
between the rich and the poor, food waste and the income distribution that causes it proves to be
our generation’s problem to fix. With millions living in food deserts complementing food waste at
an all time high by amount of kilograms per year, our food situation is not at the best status it
could be. Therefore, to look towards a long-term solution that does not force a culture change of
food consumption while providing enough food to the food-insecure population, we can look to
reevaluation and transportation of wasted food generated by district, state, or the nation as one.
This led our team to our first obstacle of a mathematical model for a state to analyze its
own possibilities with waste food generated. We decided to create a model off the financial data
we were given about seven food categories and their waste percentage on average per category.
This allowed us to estimate the financial loss of each food wasted. With this as a singular
financial amount, we could finish our equation with the needed money per meal to analyze how
much of the food-insecure population of a state could be fed on a healthy three meals/day diet
for 365 days. Our analysis with Texas proved to be quite interesting as it only concluded that
24.2% of this population could live a standard normal diet. While this does not discount the idea
of many states providing healthy wasted food proportionally to all of the food-insecure
population, it proves that financially, all the wasted food generated would not be able to ideally
feed the population that needs it, which was contrary to our hypothesis.
Next, we were tasked with the estimation of a smaller environment, the different unique
households of America. Therefore, our mathematical model must be based on the traits and
habits of different households and how age, number per household of a certain age category, and
annual income would impact food waste per household. Instead of taking the traditional
approach by creating an equation, we decided to turn to artificial neural networks to train off of
data that we extracted from a John Hopkins University research paper. This paper gave us data
based off a questionnaire that estimated the perception of the percentage of food wasted and
provided us with complementary demographics to derive correlations from. With perception, the
theory of the Wisdom of the Crowd can conclude us to the average judgement and therefore the
right solution. We ran the four provided households through this trained network and validated the
results through the national average household food waste of 31-40%.
Lastly, we focused on our own environment of Dougherty Valley High School and its lunch
habits with how much food waste occurs everyday. From personal experience, we chose to focus
on the impact of time and the multiple strategies the school can take on to reduce unnecessary
food waste while promoting a full healthy diet that has high supply but a low demand. Our
mathematical model focused on the impacts of how a rushed lunch period can lead to different
priorities in food choices and a lack of completion for what they bought. The logistic model
assumption gave us the conclusion that the model guaranteed a decrease in food loss but it can
lead to a loss of class time and therefore decrease grades.
